Implementation of MK docs. (#33)
FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml: docs/tutorials.md

# Tutorials

> This tutorial will explain different keywords, terms and rules from the prespective of YAML format of the NeXus schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will explain different keywords, terms, and rules from the perspective of YAML format of the NeXus schema.
```

Honestly, this is not a tutorial. It should rather go to explanations.

Reviewer: Note that tutorial, how-to guide, reference, etc. have special meaning in the [Diataxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/) we are using. This also means that the different sections should align with that meaning. But it's probably fine to keep it as is.

NXmpes(NXobject):
```

### NeXus Group
[NeXus groups](https://manual.nexusformat.org/design.html#design-groups), as instances of NeXus base classes, embody the compositional structure of application definitions. These groups can be initialized dynamically or statically, each approach offering distinct advantages.

Dynamic initialization allows for the instantiation of groups while implementing the NeXus definition to store data (in HDF5 file format called NeXus file). This method provides flexibility for multiple instances at the same level within the NeXus file. For instance, the group `(NXmanipulator)` can initialize multiple groups such as `manipulator1` and `manipulator2` of the base class `NXmanipulator` during data writing.

Descriptive information about NeXus groups is encapsulated within the `doc` child of the respective group. It is important to note that the group annotation of `source_TYPE(NXsource)` or `(NXsource)source_TYPE` signifies the encapsulation of the group's `name` as `source_TYPE` and its type as `NXsource` base class. Notably, the order between `name` and `type` within the XML element must be inverted such two different syntax.

> Furthermore, the uppercase part of the group's name can be dynamically overwritten, allowing for the instantiation of multiple instances. For example, `source_electric` and `source_magnetic` can coexist from `NXsource`. It is essential to adhere to the uppercase dynamic rules for NeXus groups, fields, and attributes.

Reviewer: This is now covered by `nameType=partial`, the documentation here should be updated.

```

### NeXus Link
The NeXus `link` concept reduces duplication of the data since several concepts of the same kind (e.g., NeXus field or NeXus attribute) can refer to a single copy of a data element . In YAML format, NeXus `link` is defined denoting the link in side parenthesis. At the same time, the concept containing the data must be mentioned under the `target` child.

**NeXus link in YAML format**
```yaml
reference_measurement(link):
  target: /NXentry
  doc: A link to a full data collection.
```

In the provided YAML example, `reference_measurement` is defined as a link refering the `NXentry` group with its target specified as `/NXentry`. This structure ensures that the concept referencing the data is effectively linked to the designated target, thereby reducing redundancy and maintaining data integrity within the NeXus framework.

### NeXus Choice
NeXus `choice` concept is designed to choose a concept from a number of concepts of the same kind (e.g., a NeXus field). The `choice` options allows for defining a scientific concept in several modes for different situations (e.g., for different instrument configurations or measurement modes).

> **NeXus choice in YAML format**

Reviewer: This doesn't work yet, see https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/issues/23.

So, I don't think we should mention it here yet.

Author: Commented out!

**`dimensions` in YAML**
```yaml
# 2D particle motion
dimensions:
   rank: 2
   dim: [[0, nx], [1, ny]]
   dim_parameters:
      doc: ["Position of particle on x-axis.","Position of particle on y-axis."]
```
The `dimensions` can also be written in shorter form
**Dimensions in YAML (shorter form)**
```yaml
# 2D particle motion
dimensions:
   rank: 2
   dim: (nx, ny)
```

### Keyword `enumeration`
Python-like list of strings which are considered as recommended items for the fields or attributes.

**Enumeration in YAML**
```yaml
definition:
  \@version:
  enumeration: [NXmpes]
```

> In the example the valid value for NeXus field `definition` is `NXmpes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example, the only valid value for NeXus field `definition` is `NXmpes`.
```

### Keyword `xref`

> The `xref` keyword (which can only inside the keyword `doc`) is used to refer any other ontology or any other standard such `ISO`. The `xref` in the example `doc` will reflect the information inside the XML `doc`. Note that the `xref` keyword is only available in the `YAML` representation and will be transformed into its textual representation inside the `doc` text in `XML`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `xref` keyword (which can only be used inside the keyword `doc`) is used to refer any other ontology or any other standard such `ISO`. The `xref` in the example `doc` will reflect the information inside the XML `doc`. Note that the `xref` keyword is only available in the `YAML` representation and will be transformed into its textual representation inside the `doc` text in `XML`.
```

> # Tutorials

Reviewer: Use a more descriptive title here. Tutorial for what?

Author: Addressed at 53d263ed5edd4ec3ca20fb55b07674980f8d137e

> This explanatory tutorial will explain different keywords, terms, and rules from the perspective of YAML format of the NeXus schema. Therefore it provides a overall grasp on how to write a NeXus schema those syntactical components.

Reviewer 2: Paragraph needs to be completely rewritten.

On the one hand for grammar and language.
On the other hand for precision of the formulations,
a NeXus data schema's XML schema may have a serialization in YAML but other than this there is no connection between NeXus and YAML.

## Design of NeXus Ontology and Terms in YAML

> Within the YAML format, the root section denotes the top-level description of the application definition or base class schema, comprising the `category`, `type`, `doc`, `symbols` block, and the name of the schema (e.g. `NXmpes(NXobject)`). Correspondingly, the root section refers to the XML element `definition`, encompassing the first `doc` child of the `definition` and `symbols`. The definition element encapsulates essential XML attributes such as the schema's `name` (and xml attribute), the object it `extends` (an xml attribute), and the schema `type` (an xml attribute), with additional XML attributes (e.i. `xmlns:xsi`) handled by the nyaml converter. The accurate designation of category as either `base` or `application` distinguishes between an `application definition` and a `base class`. The schema name (e.i. `NXmpes(NXobject)`) with paranthesis indicates the extension of the current application definition, noting that base classes must `extends` NXobject, whereas application definitions may `extends` either `NXobject` or another `application definition` (excluding base classes). Schemas may incorporate one or multiple symbols, each imbued with specialized physical meanings beyond their literal interpretation, which are utilised over the application definition.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph is an enumeration of mappings between where something is in XML and where it is in yaml and vice versa, the content should be splitted in shorter paragraphs, statements about what is in the top-level section should go to a paragraph on top-level section, statements for a appdefs going into one in appdefs.

This is a tutorial, meaning taking people by the hand, a wall of mappings provides no taking by some hand, currently not enough bandwidth to edit this on the train

maybe its an approach to do first the moving of content like suggested by Lukas and then make individual follow-up PRs e.g. one for each md file, explanations, howto,
this would enable a more focused "head writing" and makes the reviewing shorter instead of trying to lump all changes in one PR

> Within the YAML format, the root section denotes the top-level description of the application definition or base class schema, comprising the `category`, `type`, `doc`, `symbols` block, and the name of the schema (e.g. `NXmpes(NXobject)`). Correspondingly, the root section refers to the XML element `definition`, encompassing the first `doc` child of the `definition` and `symbols`. The definition element encapsulates essential xml attributes such as the schema's `name` (and xml attribute), the object it `extends` (an xml attribute), and the schema `type` (an xml attribute), with additional XML attributes (e.i. `xmlns:xsi`) handled by the nyaml converter. The accurate designation of category as either `base` or `application` distinguishes between an `application definition` and a `base class`. The schema name (e.i. `NXmpes(NXobject)`) with paranthesis indicates the extension of the current application definition, noting that base classes must `extends` NXobject, whereas application definitions may `extends` either `NXobject` or another `application definition` (excluding base classes). Schemas may incorporate one or multiple symbols, each imbued with specialized physical meanings beyond their literal interpretation, which are utilised over the application definition.

Reviewer: Add line breaks, now it looks like a very big bloc in the built docs.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f0c46b8b-1988-4e84-8d0e-5564b3f3d25e)

**A typical root section for the application definition `NXmpes` outlined**

```yaml
category: application
type: group
doc: |
  This is the most general application definition for multidimensional photoelectron spectroscopy.

  .. _ISO 18115-1:2023: https://www.iso.org/standard/74811.html
  .. _IUPAC Recommendations 2020: https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2019-0404
symbols:
  doc: |
    The symbols used in the schema to specify e.g. dimensions of arrays
  n_transmission_function: |
    Number of data points in the transmission function.
NXmpes(NXobject):
```

### NeXus Group
[NeXus groups](https://manual.nexusformat.org/design.html#design-groups), as instances of NeXus base classes, embody the compositional structure of application definitions. Depending on the value of keyword `nameType`, these groups can be initialized dynamically or statically, each approach offering distinct advantages. The keyword `nameType` can hold three district values: `specified`, `any`, and `partial` (for details see the table in `nameType` keyword).

> 

Reviewer: Here it is better with the linebreaks.

Dynamic initialization allows the instantiation of groups while implementing the NeXus definition to store data (in HDF5 file format called NeXus file). This method provides flexibility for multiple instances at the same level within the NeXus file. For instance, the group `(NXmanipulator)` (with `nameType`=`any`) can initialize multiple groups such as `manipulator1` and `manipulator2` of the base class `NXmanipulator` during data writing.

> Descriptive information about NeXus groups is encapsulated within the `doc` child of the respective group. It is important to note that the group annotation of `source_TYPE(NXsource)` or `(NXsource)source_TYPE` signifies the encapsulation of the group's `name` as `source_TYPE` and its type as `NXsource` base class. Notably, the order between `name` and `type` within the XML element will be inverted for two different syntaxs.

Reviewer: I think we are enforcing `source_TYPE(NXsource)` now, so this part can be dropped

Author: Yeah, but I do not give any stress on any specific way of dynamic innitialisation, both `(nx_class)` and `static_nameDANYMICNAMNE`, both should come into the picture, no?

Reviewer: My point is that we never write `(NXsource)source_TYPE` anymore, so we should not mention it herr

Author: Yeah, we do not write a group in that way if we develop from scratch. It is still writeable and indeed we get such syntax while extending or converting other nxdl file to yaml file developed by external people.

It is not anything wrong, right? IMO, by removing that we mainly hiding the another way of group representation in yaml which may be appeared in several app def or base class.

you may rethink that, I can remove that part, no problem.

Author: Addressed in 79eabd68751c64902af81894c0d684b2a8c280d3.

Furthermore, for `nameType`=`partial`, the uppercase part of the group's name can be dynamically overwritten, allowing for the instantiation of multiple instances. For example, `source_electric` and `source_magnetic` can coexist from `NXsource`. The same upper case rules for multiple instances are also applicable for NeXus fields and attributes.

**NeXus Groups in YAML format**
```yaml
# NeXus groups in YAML format
source_TYPE(NXsource):
  exists: recommended
  nameType: partial
  doc: |
    A source used to generate a beam.
(NXmanipulator):
  exists: optional
  nameType: any # default
  doc: |
    Manipulator for positioning of the sample.
  value_log(NXlog):
    exists: optional
```

### NeXus Field and NeXus Attribute

> A NeXus group may contain NeXus fields, NeXus attributes, and NeXus groups. A field, that does not have preceding `NX`, and a attribute, preceded by `\@`, must have a [NeXus type](https://manual.nexusformat.org/nxdl-types.html#index-0) (e.g.`NX_FLOAT`, `NX_CHAR`). In the YAML notation, each NeXus field or attribute has a implicit type `NX_CHAR`; otherwise its type must be denoted inside the parenthesis (e.g. `end_time(NX_DATE_TIME)`). Other XML attributes of the NeXus `field` and NeXus `attribute` comes as children of the field and attribute defined by special keyword (the special keywords will be discussed on next section). The explanatory text of the NeXus fields or attributes goes under `doc` child.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A NeXus group may contain NeXus fields, NeXus attributes, and other NeXus groups. A field, which is written as a string without a preceding `NX`, and an attribute, preceded by `\@`, must have a [NeXus type](https://manual.nexusformat.org/nxdl-types.html#index-0) (e.g.`NX_FLOAT`, `NX_CHAR`). The NeXus type type must be denoted inside parenthesis (e.g. `end_time(NX_DATE_TIME)`; if it is ommited, the NeXus field or attribute has the type `NX_CHAR` by default. Other XML attributes of the NeXus `field`/`attribute` can be defined using one of a set of special key ords below the field/attribute by indentation (the special keywords will be discussed in the next section). The explanatory documentation text of the NeXus field/attribute is given within the `doc` child.
```

Also make sure to either always use `field`/`attribute` (i.e., code-like) or just plain field/attribute.

Reviewer 2: There is here for me too much giving references to things and overall too much stuff in that flat file, better make tutorial.md have an own table of concepts so that one can navigate from section to section, also making reference to specific locations in the NeXus manual we should use whenever possible

Author: Added in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

> A NeXus group may encompass multiple `field`, `attribute`, and subgroup, each serving distinct purposes within the data structure. The [`field`](https://manual.nexusformat.org/design.html#design-fields), denoted without the prefix NX, and the [`attribute`](https://manual.nexusformat.org/design.html#design-attributes), indicated by `\@`, must be associated with a NeXus type (e.g., `NX_FLOAT`, `NX_CHAR`). In YAML format, each field or attribute (NeXus attribute) implicitly assumes the type `NX_CHAR`, unless explicitly specified within parentheses (e.g., `end_time(NX_DATE_TIME)`).

Reviewer: This can be removed, it is a repetition of the paragraph before.

Author: Added in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

> Additionally, `XML` attributes specific to NeXus field and attribute are represented as children of the corresponding `field` or `attribute` elements (further details on special keywords will be discussed in the following section). Descriptive information pertaining to NeXus `field`s or `attribute`s is encapsulated within the `doc` child element.

Reviewer: Remove as described above

Author: Addressed in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

**NeXus field and attribute in YAML format**
```yaml
(NXentry):
  exsits: required
  definition:  # Field type: NX_CHAR
    \@version:  # Attribute type: NX_CHAR
    enumeration: [NXmpes]
  title:
  start_time(NX_DATE_TIME):  # Field type: NX_DATE_TIME
    doc: Datetime of the start of the measurement.
  end_time(NX_DATE_TIME):  # Field type: NX_DATE_TIME
    exists: recommended
    doc: Datetime of the end of the measurement.
```

### NeXus Link

> The NeXus `link` concept reduces duplication of the data since several concepts of the same kind (e.g., NeXus field or NeXus attribute) can refer to a single copy of a data element. In YAML format, NeXus `link` is defined denoting the link in side parenthesis. At the same time, the concept containing the data must be mentioned under the `target` child.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NeXus `link` reduces data duplication since several concepts of the same kind (e.g., NeXus group, field, or attribute) can refer to a single copy of a data element. In YAML format, NeXus `link` is defined denoting the link in parenthesis. At the same time, the concept containing the data must be mentioned under the `target` child.
```

Author: Addressed in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

**NeXus link in YAML format**
```yaml
reference_measurement(link):
  target: /entry
  doc: A link to a full data collection.
```

> In the above YAML example, `reference_measurement` is defined as a link refering the `NXentry` group with its target specified as `/entry`. This structure ensures that the concept referencing the data is effectively linked to the designated target, thereby reducing redundancy and maintaining data integrity within the NeXus framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the YAML example above, `reference_measurement` is defined as a link refering to the `NXentry` group with its target specified as `/entry`. This structure ensures that the concept referencing the data is effectively linked to the designated target, thereby reducing redundancy and maintaining data integrity within the NeXus framework.
```

Author: Addressed in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

<!-- ### NeXus Choice
NeXus `choice` concept is designed to choose a concept from a number of concepts of the same kind (e.g., a NeXus field). The `choice` options allows for defining a scientific concept in several modes for different situations (e.g., for different instrument configurations or measurement modes).

**NeXus choice in YAML format**
__Not implemented in the `nyaml` tool! Coming soon__

```yaml
pixel_shape(choice):
  (NXoff_geometry):
    doc: Shape description of each pixel. Use only if all pixels in the detector
      are of uniform shape.
  (NXcylindrical_geometry):
    doc: Shape description of each pixel. Use only if all pixels in the detector
      are of uniform shape and require being described by cylinders.
```

In this `choice` example, `pixel_shape` could be any of the groups `(NXoff_geometry)` and `(NXcylindrical_geometry)`, depending on the geometry of the pixels. -->

## Special Keywords in YAML

> To explain the context of NeXus, certain keywords hold significance beyond their literal interpretations. These special keywords are utilized to elucidate and denote various NeXus terms like attributes, fields, links, and groups, thereby enhancing the clarity and specificity of the data representation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the YAML schema the tool uses, certain keywords hold significance beyond their literal interpretations. These special keywords are utilized to elucidate and denote various NeXus terms like attributes, fields, links, and groups, thereby enhancing the clarity and specificity of the data representation.
```

Author: Addressed in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

### Keyword `exists`

> The `exists` keyword plays a pivotal role in delineating the optionality of NeXus concepts `attribute`, `field`, `choice` `link`, and `group`, during the implementation of NeXus definitions in NeXus files. It provides crucial insights into the expected presence or absence of these concepts within the NeXus data structure. By default, all the concepts of a base class are optional, while in an application definition, all concepts are required.

Reviewer: remove choice here

Author: commented out.

> The `exists` keyword plays a pivotal role in delineating the optionality of NeXus concepts `attribute`, `field`, `choice` `link`, and `group`, during the implementation of NeXus definitions in NeXus files. It provides crucial insights into the expected presence or absence of these concepts within the NeXus data structure. By default, all the concepts of a base class are optional, while in an application definition, all concepts are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `exists` keyword plays a pivotal role in definining the optionality of NeXus concepts `attribute`, `field`, `link`, and `group`. It provides crucial insights into the expected presence or absence of these concepts within the NeXus data structure when implementing the NeXus definitions in NeXus files. By default, all the concepts of a base class are optional, while in an application definition, all concepts are required.
```

Author: Addressed in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

Currently, the accepted values for the `exists` keyword encompass:

`optional`: Denotes that the NeXus concept is not mandatory and may be absent.
`recommended`: Suggests that the NeXus concept is advisable, but not mandatory.

> `required`: Indicates that the NeXus concept must be present within the structure. Any validation of a NeXus file will fail or give warning if required concepts (for a given application definition) are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`required`: Indicates that the NeXus concept must be present within the structure. Any validation of a NeXus file will fail or give a warning if required concepts (for a given application definition) are not available.
```

Author: Addressed in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

`[min, <number>, max, <number> or infty]`: Represents an array type value that signifies the multiplicity of the NeXus concepts. For instance, a concept having the keyword `exists: [min, 3, max, infty]` implies that this concept must come with a minimum of three instances and may extend to any number of instances.

**`exists` in YAML**

```yaml
transmission_correction(NXcalibration):
  exists: optional
  doc: |
    This calibration procedure is used to account for the different tranmsission efficiencies.
```

> In the above example the greoup `transmission_correction` is a optional group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example the group `transmission_correction` is an optional group.
```

### Keyword `unit`

> A statement introducing NeXus-compliant NXDL `units` attribute to the `field`, e.g. `NX_VOLTAGE` to assign a predefined physical unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `unit` keyword is used to define the NeXus-compliant unit categories (which int the NXDL schema are denoted as `units`).
```

Author: Addressed in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

**`unit` in YAML**

```yaml
detector_voltage(NX_FLOAT):
  unit: NX_VOLTAGE
  doc: |
    Voltage applied to detector.
```

### Keyword `dimensions`

> The `dimensions` term  describes the multidimensional nature of the data, specifying its rank, dimensional indices, and corresponding length of the rank. For example, the attribute `rank` defines the dimension of the data set. To elucidate each dimension, we use two other keywords: `dim` and `dim_parameters`. The `dim` keyword comprises an array of arrays, the nested array encapsulates values for `index` and `value` (NeXus keywords) pairs. Each array within the `dim` array corresponds to a specific dimension of the multidimensional data. For example, for 2D particle motion, the `dim` array may be represented as `[[0, nx], [1, ny]]`, each member indicating the axis index and axis name. The keyword `dim_parameters` contains further information of each dimension such as `doc`, `ref`, etc. It is important to note that each term or keyword within `dim_parameters` must have the same length as the value of the rank keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dimensions` term  describes the multidimensional nature of the data, specifying its rank, dimensional indices, and corresponding length of the rank. The attribute `rank` defines the dimension of the data set. To elucidate each dimension, we use two other keywords: `dim` and `dim_parameters`. The `dim` keyword comprises an array of arrays, the nested array encapsulates values for `index` and `value` (NeXus keywords) pairs. Each array within the `dim` array corresponds to a specific dimension of the multidimensional data. For example, for 2D particle motion, the `dim` array may be represented as `[[0, nx], [1, ny]]`, each member indicating the axis index and axis name. The keyword `dim_parameters` contains further information of each dimension such as `doc`, `ref`, etc. It is important to note that each term or keyword within `dim_parameters` must have the same length as the value of the rank keyword.
```

This reads a bit confusing, but probably okay

Author: Added in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

**`dimensions` in YAML**
```yaml
# 2D particle motion
dimensions:
   rank: 2
   dim: [[0, nx], [1, ny]]
   dim_parameters:
      doc: ["Position of particle on x-axis.","Position of particle on y-axis."]
```
The `dimensions` can also be written in shorter form
**Dimensions in YAML (shorter form)**
```yaml
# 2D particle motion
dimensions:
   rank: 2
   dim: (nx, ny)
```

### Keyword `enumeration`

> Python-like list of strings which are considered as recommended items for the fields or attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List of strings which are considered as a set of predefined values for fields or attributes.
```

Reviewer: Add something about open enums here.

**Enumeration in YAML**
```yaml
definition:
  \@version:
In the example, the only valid value for NeXus field `definition` is `NXmpes`.
```
In the example, the only valid value for NeXus field `definition` is `NXmpes`.

> The `xref` keyword (which can only be used inside the keyword `doc`) is used to refer any other ontology or any other standard such `ISO`. The `xref` in the example `doc` will reflect the information inside the XML `doc`. Note that the `xref` keyword is only available in the `YAML` representation and will be transformed into its textual representation inside the `doc` text in `XML`.

Reviewer: Remove the part starting from "The `xref` keyword", this is mentioned in the next section

Author: Added in [5ec2c7b](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nyaml/commit/5ec2c7b07b738aac1a483248431b410e0c8577f8)

### Keyword `xref`

> The `xref` keyword (which can only be used inside the keyword `doc`) is used to refer any other ontology or any other standard such `ISO`. The `xref` in the example `doc` will reflect the information inside the XML `doc`. Note that the `xref` keyword is only available in the `YAML` representation and will be transformed into its textual representation inside the `doc` text in `XML`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `xref` keyword (which can only be used inside the keyword `doc`) is used to refer any other ontology or any other standard (such as `ISO`). The `xref` in the example `doc` will reflect the information inside the XML `doc`. Note that the `xref` keyword is only available in the `YAML` representation and will be transformed into its textual representation inside the `doc` text in `XML`.
```

**`xref` in YAML**
```yaml
(NXinstrument):
  doc:
  - |
    Description of the MPES spectrometer and its individual parts.
  - |
    xref:
      spec: ISO 18115-1:2023
      term: 12.58
      url: https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/en/#iso:std:iso:18115:-1:ed-3:v1:en:term:12.58
```

> ### Keyword `nameType`

Reviewer: I would push this up, right to where we are discussing the name and the replacement if nameType is partial or any
